# GDAC Capstone Project: Bellabeat with R
This repository is about the Capstone Case Study for the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate done by **Alifia Ganjaraharja** and contains R code to analyze the usage of the data from one of Bellabeat's products to understand and gain insights on how consumers are already using their smart devices then use these insights to make high-level-recommendations that will guide their marketing strategy.

# Overview of the Bellabeat Company
Bellabeat is the go-to wellness brand for women with an ecosystem of products and services focused on women's health. They are a small successful company with the potential to become a larger player in the global smart device. Found by Urska Srsen and Sando Mur, Bellabeat wants to analyze data that could help unlock new opportunities by gaining some marketing strategies.

# Business Task
Bellabeat wants to analyze the usage of the data from one of their products to understand to gain insights on how consumers are already using their smart devices and then use these insights to make high-level recommendations that will guide their marketing strategy.

# Stakeholders
The stakeholders include:
1. Urska Srsen, Bellabeat's co-founder and Chief Executive Officer
2. Sando Mur, Mathematician and Bellabeat's Co-founder
3. BellaBeat's Marketing Analytics Team

# Data Source
The **FitBit Fitness Tracker Data** dataset by **Mobius** under the license **CCO: Public Domain** was used. This dataset was generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. 30 eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring.
[access to the dataset here](http://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit) 

# Data Integrity & Credibility
Dataset does not **ROCCC**:
1. The dataset is **not Reliable** since it only shows data from only 30 women. It does not show demographics or geographical data and has a very small sample size.
2. The dataset is **not Original**. The provenance section shows that the data has been preprocessed.
3. The dataset is **Comprehensive**: The metrics in the dataset matches the needs of Bellabeat.
4. The dataset is **not Current**: The dataset was last updated three years ago, displaying data from 2016.
5. The dataset is **not Cited**: Data was collected by third party and the author name is blank.

# Sorting & Filtering
My analysis is focused on trends in the usage of the app which is why my analysis will be focused on user engagement. 


